you wake up in your ultra-modern
dwelling go out on the balcony
and admire the incredible sandstorm in
the distance
the reddish wall is approaching and has
already reached the parking lot
where your shiny starship rocket stands
when the storm subsides you put on your
spacesuit get in your rover
and drive to work your job today is to
monitor the instruments in the
freshwater extraction plant
in the evening your shift ends and you
return home
the cooking robot has already prepared
dinner fried potatoes grown right here
on mars this scenario could be true as
early as 2050
and even sooner elon musk plans to send
a million people to mars by then
very ambitious but incredibly difficult
to accomplish
flying to mars is very expensive and
time consuming
and it consists of several stages we're
heading to the launch pad
where the first starship is being
prepared for takeoff
the rocket consists of two parts the
first is the super heavy booster
it'll help the heavy craft overcome the
earth's gravity
and leave our planet it should take
starship into orbit
then undock and land back on earth
at that time starship has to hover in
orbit
having used up almost all of its fuel
during takeoff
the next step is to refuel starship
right in orbit
the booster takes off again from the
launch pad and carries fuel
for the main spacecraft starship is
still empty
because we don't want to spend a lot of
fuel to lift it out of orbit
so now it's time for another booster
rocket to carry a payload for starship
food construction materials and research
equipment are stacked in the cargo bay
all set at last our spaceship sets off
on its long journey
towards mars this is how just one ship
is planned to be launched but it can
only hold 100 people
while we're planning to send a million
there that's almost half the population
of brooklyn
that means we'll need at least 10 000
ships for the whole mission
and even more booster rockets to refuel
and send cargo into orbit
considering that one starship costs
about eight billion dollars
this mission would cost a pretty penny
the key to solving this problem is
reusing these
ships once the ship has delivered people
to mars
it should be refueled and sent back to
earth for the next batch
sort of a space bus another problem
is time the orbits of earth and mars
aren't perfectly
circular they're of different lengths
and make circles around the sun
at different speeds when earth and mars
are at their farthest apart
the distance between them is about 248
million miles
and the closest distance when the earth
is perfectly between the sun and mars
is 34 million miles this is our target
once every 26 months earth and mars meet
at this distance
so this is the perfect time to launch a
rocket to keep the flight time
as short as possible between six and
eight months
if the first flight is scheduled for
2025 and we plan to complete the mission
in 2050
we would only have 12 such flight
windows we would need to launch
at least 833 ships in each window
then there's weightlessness on a trip to
mars
astronauts will spend more time in zero
gravity than people now spend
on the international space station
without gravity
people's muscles weaken even the
distance between their vertebrae
slightly increases so during the
missions
astronauts actually become a bit taller
throughout the voyage the team will have
to constantly train in the gym
to be ready for the hard work upon
arriving on mars
[Music]
in addition to ships with people on
board cargo ships will also be needed
when people arrive on mars they will
need to build an entire city from
scratch
construction materials tools machines
the massive cargo starship can take on
board is about 75 tons
that's about 30 suvs so we'll need a lot
more ships
to get everything we need and that
doubles the cost of the whole mission
there's a cheaper way to get to mars
though the gateway station
on the moon it's kind of like the iss
only
it orbits our natural satellite it'll
also have many modules for astronauts
living bays storage bays docks for ships
and research units
the whole point is that it's much easier
for a spaceship to launch from such a
station
because there's no gravity and then the
ship doesn't have to use an incredible
amount of fuel
to leave the earth's atmosphere it took
about 100 billion dollars to build the
iss
and building gateway could be even more
expensive
but it should save us money in the
future
the small orion spacecraft will lift
astronauts from the surface to the
station
then after preparation the astronauts
will go on a long journey to mars
let's go a little bit forward in time
the first few ships have delivered their
load on the surface of the red planet
beach umbrellas and deck chairs will
have to wait because it's time to build
the city
and prepare for the arrival of the next
group of people
the priority is energy for this we can
use solar panels
like on earth or nuclear power plants
the next step is to build houses because
of the lack of atmosphere on mars
nothing will protect us from the sun's
radiation so
a great option is to build houses
underground
now we need to take care of water
extraction there are ice caps at the
poles of mars
we can take water from there then
oxygen plants have to help us do that
there's a lot of carbon dioxide in the
air of mars
which serves as a kind of food for green
plants
and as a waste product they release
oxygen
all we have to do is collect this oxygen
and use it to breathe
sooner or later the food we bring with
us will run out
so we'll have to grow food directly on
mars
this requires fertilizers and
greenhouses
now that everything else is taken care
of the main task is to produce
fuel we need it for vehicles on mars and
for rockets to be able to return home
fuel can be extracted from the carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere
and water all this has to be done
in completely unfamiliar conditions
gravity on mars
is three times weaker than at home
you'll be able to jump higher
and lift heavier objects but prolonged
exposure to such weak gravity
can harm our bodies now that there's a
whole city on the planet's surface
it's time to turn mars into something
more comfortable resembling earth
this is called terraforming
we need to increase the pressure in the
atmosphere so that water can exist here
not only as a vapor or ice but also in
liquid form
we also need to raise the temperature of
the surface our goal
is about 68 degrees fahrenheit right now
it's about negative 81 degrees
fahrenheit on average there
then we need an ozone layer like on
earth
it should protect us from solar
radiation finally
we can start creating the biosphere
that's all living organisms
plants and animals gradually mars will
start to resemble earth
in its best years for all this
scientists have come up with many
solutions for example
a large asteroid could be dropped on the
surface of mars
this would warm up the atmosphere and
bring more water and gas there
the planet could also be populated with
different bacteria
in laboratories on earth scientists have
simulated conditions on the surface of
mars
and realized many bacteria can survive
there
as long as they live they can release
oxygen and other gases into the air
besides that we can build biodomes
this is a kind of greenhouse with
favorable conditions
life will develop in it and the soil of
mars will gradually become
suitable for life and one of the easiest
ways
is the greenhouse effect on earth it
contributes to global warming
but on mars gas emissions from cars and
factories
can help create an atmosphere
optimistically it could take 300 to 1
000 years to change the face of the red
planet
other scientists say it could take
millions of years
only then will humans finally be able to
take off their spacesuits and oxygen
masks
and call mars home